The proposed pointings for Campaigns 14, 15, and 16 of the K2 Mission present
an unprecedented opportunity to discover and characterize planets transiting
stars belonging to the Sagittarius (Sgr) and the GD-1 stellar streams.
Stellar streams are spatially coherent remnants of tidally disrupted stellar
satellites such as globular clusters and dwarf galaxies.
The stars in these streams therefore typically have low metallicities, old
ages, and have formed in a very different chemical environment relative to
Milky Way disk stars.
With much higher stellar densities relative to the Galactic halo and distinct
chemical properties, these substructures will provide an exciting and
economical way to study the population statistics of planetary systems at low
stellar metallicities.
Both Sgr and GD-1 are well-studied tidal debris structures:
The Sgr stream is forming from the destruction of the Sgr dwarf galaxy, and
GD-1 is likely the remnant of a fully-disrupted, unknown globular cluster.

The Sgr stream has been traced a full 360 degrees around the Milky Way and is
detected in many different stellar populations (from main sequence to M and K
giant stars).
The nearest sections of Sgr visible in Fields 14-16 span a range of distances
from 10-30 kpc, closer than any other satellite galaxy around the Milky Way but
still many times the distance of the farthest known transiting exoplanets.
However, even at these distances, K2 will be able to easily observe giant stars
(Kp ~ 16-18).

The GD-1 stream is only ~60 degrees in length and is primarily seen in main
sequence stars.
Fortunately, the nearest end of the stream (at heliocentric distance ~ 7 kpc)
intersects the center of the Campaign 16 field.
At these distances, main sequence turnoff stars are around Kp ~ 17.5-18.5 and
are easily detectable by K2.

In previous work, we have developed and demonstrated a method to search for
exoplanet transits using K2 data that has resulted in the publication of the
first systematic catalog of transit candidates based on a K2 data release.
This method can robustly detect transiting exoplanets despite the large
systematic variability introduced by the diminished pointing precision of the
Kepler spacecraft and performs well even at faint apparent magnitudes (Kp ~
17-18 mag).

We propose to target all of the brightest Sgr and GD-1 stream member stars in
Campaigns 14-16 of the K2 Mission (~300 targets).
Using our transit detection procedure, we will search the light curves for
large planets transiting these stars.
These signals will be small and the light curves will be noisy, therefore
robust noise modeling will be crucial for transit signal discovery.
In both streams, we will be most sensitive to giant stars.

Though the chance of discovering a transiting planet belonging to a star in
either stellar stream is admittedly low, the relative cost of observing these
targets is also low:
The discovery of even a single transiting planet of extragalactic origin could
open a new direction for studying planet formation and population statistics in
unique stellar populations.
